Situations:

1. If lost in the wilderness, what is the first thing you should do?
	Find a shelter.
	Begin yelling for help.
	Sit down and relax, collect your thoughts. - answer
	Find water.
	Make a signal fire.


2. If lost, why should you stay in one place, and wait it out? - mark all that apply:
	From experience, wandering around just makes things go further wrong.
	If you told someone, people are probably looking for you.
	Lost people have a tendency to walk in circles.
	If you begin running around trying to find out where you are, especially in the dark, you risk falling or injuring yourself.
	Don't stay more then 6 hours waiting for a rescue team.

The following four alternatives are true:

1. If you told someone, people are probably looking for you.                    
2. Lost people have a tendency to walk in circles.                                     
3. From experience, wandering around just makes things go further wrong.
4. If you begin running around trying to find out where you are, especially  
in the dark, you risk falling or injuring yourself.                                 

Comment on the false statements:

You should definitely stay more then 6 hours waiting for a rescue team.   
Wait it out, it might be many hours before anyone thinks you're actually  
missing and contact the rescue team.                                                    
Then the rescue team has to try and find you - you probably have to       
wait for days.    


3. What is the best survival tip you can get?
	Remain calm and not to panic.
	Make sure you always have a folding knife.
	Collect bird eggs for survival food.
	Use a mirror to signal for help.
	Build a “debris hut” as your shelter.

- Remain calm and not to panic.                                              

Panic is your major enemy and will harm you.                     
Fear and panic reduce your ability to make smart decisions. 


4. What are the two most important things you should do before you leave on your wilderness trip?
	Inform someone where you are headed and when you plan to return.
	Study your maps carefully.
	Have a good meal.
	Pack some extra survival food.
	Check the weather forecast.

Right answer:

- Inform someone where you are headed and when you plan to return.    
- Check the weather forecast.                                                               

Comments:

You will be found faster if the rescue team know your proposed route.
Reminder: Leave a note in your vehicle as to where you're headed.    


5. In general what is the most important survival tool you have?
	fishing kit
	knife
	flint striker
	first aid kit
	waterproof matches

Right answer:

- knife.

Your wilderness survival knife is an invaluable asset in the wilderness.
You always need a knife.   


6. When picking your survival shelter site make sure it is placed - mark all that apply:
	On low ground such as ravines and narrow valleys.
	On ground that is dry and well drained.
	Where it easily can been seen.
	Very close to water.
	On a dry riverbed.

These two alternatives are right:

1. On ground that is dry and well drained.                                  
2. Where it easily can been seen.                                              

Correction of false statements:

- A shelter site too close to water may lead you to be troubled
by insects.                                                                      
- Avoid even dry riverbeds. Heavy rainfall in nearby hills can  
easily create flash floods.                                                  
- Low ground such as ravines and narrow valleys could be       
damp and collect the heavy cold air at night.   


7. If you are forced to spend the night outside in harsh and unpredictable weather - what is the first thing you should do? :
	start a fire
	find water
	check your survival kit
	eat some food
	find or build a shelter

Right answer:

- build a shelter.

In harsh weather, building a survival shelter is an
absolute priority. Beware of hypothermia.    


8. We know for the most part, that lost people are rescued within 72-hours. What are the three most important priorities in a survival situation?
	Food
	Shelter
	Fire
	Positive mental attitude
	Water

Right answer:

- A positive mental attitude, shelter and water.                           

You will survive for weeks without food but only a few days
without water.                                                                  
A fire will definitely make it more comfortable but a shelter
is more important in most situations.      


9. Three symptoms of mild hypothermia :
	hunger
	shivering
	fumbling hands and poor coordination
	thirst
	muddled thinking


These three alternatives are right:

1. shivering                                          
2. fumbling hands and poor coordination
3. muddled thinking  


10. What is the most certain way to make sure suspect water is pure and safely disinfected?
	filtration
	cool it down (use e.g ice or snow)
	put in some pine needles
	chemicals
	boiling

Right answer:

- boiling

Boiling is the most certain way of killing all microorganisms.
Boiling will not neutralize chemical pollutants.     



11. How much water should the average adult drink per day?
	Less then 1 Quart ( 1 Liter )
	0.5 - 1 Gallon ( 2 - 4 Liter )
	1 - 2 Quart (1 - 2 Liter )
	1 - 2 Gallon ( 4 – 8 Liter )
	More then 2 Gallon ( 8 Liter )

Right answer:

- 0.5 - 1 Gallon ( 2 - 4 Liter )



12. When searching for survival food, which method is less recommended? You have no special equipment only a knife.
	hunting
	trapping
	fishing
	collecting bird eggs
	finding wild edible plants

Right answer:

- hunting

Unless you are an experienced hunter, hunting animals for meat is inadvisable
in a survival situation. Hunting is difficult and you will expend a lot of energy
to get your survival food.      


13. Finding direction by the sun - mark all that apply :
	The sun rises in the east and sets in the west - roughly speaking.
	Shadows are shorter in the winter than in the summer.
	The sun reaches its highest point at noon (correct for Daylight Saving Time).
	At noon (correct for Daylight Saving Time) the sun is either true south or north.
	Using a pocket watch to find direction is an accurate method.

The following three alternatives are true:

1. The sun rises in the east and sets in the west - roughly speaking.                       
2. The sun reaches its highest point at noon(correct for Daylight Saving Time).     
3. At noon (correct for Daylight Saving Time) the sun is either true south or north.


Correction of false statements:

Shadows are longer in the winter than in the summer.                                   
Finding direction with a pocket watch is a rough method of estimation.     



14. Anyone practising first aid must determining the priorities of treatment. What's the first priority if you found someone lying injured on the ground.
	Check that the airway is open.
	Keep the casualty warm.
	Stop any bleeding.
	Start chest compressions.
	Place the casualty in the recovery position.

Right answer:

- Airway, if you don't have any airway, nothing else is going to matter.                   

The heart in a health person will last no longer than 5 minutes at best without air.


15. Survival Food - If true mark the checkbox :
	Bird eggs are excellent survival meals.
	All plants that have a milky sap or white berries are edible.
	Most fish found in freshwater are edible.
	Best time to catch fish is at noon.
	Most insects are edible raw. But boiling or roasting is safest.

The following three alternatives are true:

1. Bird eggs are excellent survival meals.                                 
2. Most fish found in freshwater are edible.                            
3. Most insects are edible raw. But boiling or roasting is safest.

Correction of false statements:

Avoid plants that have a milky sap or white berries.             
Best time to catch fish is just before dawn or just after dusk.































